---
layout: page
title:  Accessibility Facts
---

Accessibility options (also known as Assistive Technologies (AT)) allow people
with tactile, audible, and visual impairments to use Linux systems.

The keyboard accessibility options (also known as AccessX) set options such as
filtering out accidental keypresses and using shortcut keys without having to
hold down several keys at once. The following table describes keyboard
accessibility options:

<table>

<tr> <td>Feature</td> <td>Description</td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Sticky keys</td> <td><i>Sticky keys</i> cause keyboard modifiers keys
(i.e., Ctrl, Alt, or Shift) to "stick" when pressed. This affects the next
regular key to be pressed even after the release of the sticky key. This is
useful for users how have difficulty pressing multiple keys at the same time.
</td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Mouse Keys</td> <td><i>Mouse keys</i> control the mouse pointer with
the number keypad.  </td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Slow keys</td> <td><i>Slow keys</i> require a key to be pressed for a
specified time period before acceptance. This is useful for individuals who
tend to accidentally press keys.</td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Toggle keys</td> <td><i>Toggle keys</i> associate sounds when the
Caps Lock and/or Num Lock is on.</td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Repeat rate</td> <td><i>Repeat rate</i> affects how quickly the
action associated with the key is repeatedly preformed when the key is pressed
and held down. For example, if you press-and-hold a character key, the
character is typed repeatedly according to the repeat rate.</td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Bounce keys</td> <td><i>Bounce keys</i> ignore fast key presses of
the same key, compensating for when users accidentally press a single key
multiple times.</td>

</tr> </table>

Visual accessibility options include the following:

<table>

<tr> <td>Feature</td> <td>Description</td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Onscreen keyboard</td> <td>An <i>onscreen keyboard </i>displays an
image of keyboard where a user to use a mouse to select keys as if they were
pressed on a real keyboard. The GNOME On-Screen Keyboard (GOK) provides the
onscreen keyboard, but also helps users navigate the GNOME desktop with the
use of alternative input methods, such as:

<ul>

<li>Blowing and sipping to activate a pneumatic switch

</li>

<li>Blinking an eye or a directed gaze with an eye tracking system

</li>

<li>Moving the head

</li>

<li>Contracting muscles or moving limbs

</li>

</ul> </td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Mouse gesture</td> <td>A <i>mouse gesture </i>allows users to
configure Linux to complete a specified task when the mouse is moved in a
certain pattern.</td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Screen reader</td> <td>A <i>screen reader </i>reads the text on a
screen including menu and button text. Popular screen readers on Linux systems
include the following:

<ul>

<li><i>Orca</i> is a free, open source scriptable screen reader which works
with the GNOME desktop.

</li>

<li><i>Emacspeak</i> is a free screen reader which is often bundled with text
editors.

</li>

</ul> </td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Screen magnifier</td> <td>A <i>screen magnifier</i> creates an
enlarged view of the area around the mouse pointer by default.</td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Braille devices</td> <td>Linux can use the following Braille hardware
devices:

<ul>

<li>A <i>Braille display</i> is a special type of computer monitor which
creates a tactile display of textual information. Many Linux text-mode
applications manage Braille display with no configuration changes.

</li>

<li>A <i>Braille Embosser</i> prints a hard copy of a text document using
embossed Braille characters.

</li>

</ul>

BRLTTY provides a Linux daemon that redirects text-mode output to a Braille
device.

</td>

</tr>

<tr> <td>Desktop themes</td> <td>A <i>desktop theme</i> is a preset package
containing graphical appearance details. Desktop themes of an assistive nature
include:

<ul>

<li>A <i>high contrast</i> theme displays the background and text colors to
improve readability.

</li>

<li>A <i>large print</i> theme displays the text in large print to improve
readability.

</li>

</ul> </td>

</tr> </table>

